# fast-i18n

## Introduction

Fast-i18n is an internationalization tool that automatically replaces language text in the source code(typescript/js+react) and generates multi-language files through syntax analysis of ts source code(based on **typescript compiler**).

I hope that websites in different languages ​​can benefit more people in the world, hope world peace.

features:

- Write your code as if it were not an international project. Then run a one-line command which will replace all locale text with i18n keys and generate some message files according to your configuration.
- The languages ​​to be replaced and the languages ​​to be generated can be configured.
- Automatically merge template strings and jsx html text with variables.
- Integrated with `react-intl` library. (you could write your own custom render class by implement `I18nFormatter` and pass your class as params. The default class is enough)
- Supports hook mode (changing language in real time) and global mode, and can use custom render classes to determine how to replace source code and generate language files.
- Test coverage 98%.

## Example

Your code Before:

    import React from 'react';

    function Component() {
        const en = 'English';
        const cn = 'Chinese';
        const locales = `${en} and ${cn}`;

        return (
            <div>
                Please choose your locale from: {en} {cn}
            </div>
        );
    }

Your code will be replaced with the below after run command:

    import { useIntl, FormattedMessage } from 'react-intl';
    import React from 'react';

    function Component() {
        const intl = useIntl();

        const en = intl.formatMessage({
            id: 'key0001',
            defaultMessage: 'English',
        });
        const cn = intl.formatMessage({
            id: 'key0002',
            defaultMessage: 'Chinese',
        });
        const locales = intl.formatMessage({
            id: 'key0003',
            defaultMessage: '{v1} and {v2}',
            values: { v1: en, v2: cn },
        });

        return (
            <div>
                <FormattedMessage
                    id="key0004"
                    defaultMessage="Please choose your locale from: {v1} {v2}"
                    values={{ v1: en, v2: cn }}
                />
            </div>
        );
    }

You will get some new files including some locale message files and a provider which you could import and put it in your root file.

    /*
    * This file is automatic generated by fast-i18n.
    * You can only change variable's value.
    */
    import { LocalKey } from './types';

    const locale: Record<LocalKey, string> = {
        key0001: 'English',
        key0002: 'Chinese',
        key0003: '{v1} and {v2}',
        key0004: 'Please choose your locale from: {v1} {v2}',
    };

    export default locale;

# Quick start

## cli

`npx @cszhang/i18n`
you can get specific info with `npx @cszhang/i18n -h`

## api

not tested yet..

the options is like this:

    export interface ReplacerOpt {
        // file or dirs to extract messages default is [process.cwd()]
        targets?: string[];
        // The location where the locale message files are generated default is [process.cwd()/i18n]
        distLocaleDir?: string;
        // the locale which is searched in targets default is zh-cn
        localeToReplace?: LocaleTypes;
        // the locale file default is [en-us, zh-cn]
        localesToGenerate?: LocaleTypes[];
        // formatter class, use could provide class implement the `I18nFormatter` class,
        I18nFormatterClass?: DefaultI18nFormatterCtr;
        // default is hook
        // if rename the key to meaningful variable if has related english translate
        meaningKey?: boolean;
        // decide which file or dir could be handled
        filters?: Filter[];
        // file name or dir to ignore
        excludes?: string[];
        debug?: boolean;
    }

## License

The MIT License.
